---
layout: post
title: One small step for Kimmy, One giant leap for my Brain
---

According to the research of Dr. Carol Dweck there are two [mindsets](http://mindsetonline.com/), fixed and growth.  The fixed mindset is innate. People are born with a certain level of intellect and coast through life without effort.  Where as the growth mindset encourages effort and learning. People believe that they have the ability to develop their brain through effort.   Carol believes that if you are encouraged by empty accolades such as,” You are so smart" or "You are so talented”, a person is not encouraged to develop their mind, they play it safe.   Where as, with the growth mindset, a person given meaningful praise like, “You did so well, your efforts paid off” and “You must have studied really hard”, a person will welcome challenge and growth.

Deciding to start the iOS course at [TIY](https://www.theironyard.com/locations/orlando.html) was a giant leap for me.  I am originally a domestic animal trainer at SeaWorld, turned Certified Veterinary Technician, modified into a Stay-At-Home mom, now soon to be morphed into an iOS developer.  During my interview with Adam, the Campus Operations Manager, he said to me “Change your Brain, Change your Career, Change your Life”.  All of these statements terrify me.  First, "Change my Brain"?!?!,  I have been thinking a certain way for nearly 40 years,  I can always use to make improvements, but thinking like a developer is like nothing that I have ever done before.  Next comes "Change your Career"…… this one is the kicker.  I am the type of person who is all in.  That is why I stopped my previous career and became a stay-at-home mom.   A change that I wasn’t prepared for, but greatly welcomed.  I had intended on being a career woman for most of my life when my husband and I made the decision to expand our family.  Honestly the MOST AMAZING thing that I have ever done.  Becoming a mom has made me realize so much more about myself that I would have never discovered otherwise. This is how I know that I am capable of completing this immersive course. Blah, Blah, Blah, which brings me to the "Change your Life" part.  Making the decision to start a coding boot camp has turned my life around in a complete 180.  We all are making sacrifices: My son has to go to after school care with a brave face on daily and become even more independent.  My husband has to pick up the slack around the house while maintaining a full time plus job.  And then there is me abandoning everything that I  have know for the past 9 years to learn a talent that I never imagined that I would be doing.  Me a techie…..I am a pen and paper girl… what am I thinking???  

Well, I am thinking many things, but the main thought is, "We will all be stronger for it, only good can come out of it."  Yes, there will be a lot of sweat, tears and sleepless night, but I can do anything for 12 weeks,  I mean for the rest of my life.  (Insert loud screeching brakes here.)  I am looking at this like writing code. My genius instructor Mr. Gohlke, said to the class,”Take small steps. Get part of your code working before moving on the the next step”.  So this is the start of my incredible journey.  We are only in day two and I feel like a deer in the headlight, but that is how they (TIY staff) tell my I am supposed to feel.  I guess that means of far I am doing it right.  I don’t plan to know everything when I graduate.  I lan to know how to find everything when I graduate and have the ability to keep learning code.  BONUS:  I will have a better understanding of my husbands career. I will have a skill that my kid thinks is really cool.  As for me, I trained hard and ran some marathons, then is just a different kind of marathon.  I will have renewed faith in myself and I will make my family proud.  It may not be pretty but I HAVE GOT THIS!
