---
layout: post 
title: Uploading Xcode and Opening Playground Tutorial
---
###Week 3 Blog


- Search for Xcode in App store
- Download Xcode
- Open Xcode
- Open playground file
- Describe what is in playground

At the bottom of you screen in the Application bar select the ***APP Store*** icon.  Once in the App Store search for Xcode in the the top right corner of the app.  Hit enter and Xcode icon  will appear for you to download for FREE :)

Once Xcode has finished downloading use the search icon on the top right side of your screen. Click on it and a text field will open in the middle of your screen.  Type in xcode, hit enter and it will open for you.  

Once in Xcode, select:
	-file 
		-new
			-playgroud:
				name your playground
				select your platform: iOS, macOS, tvOS
	
Choose iOS and select where you would like to save your myPlayground file.  I selected desktop but you can save your file where ever you would like.

Playground: this is a place for you to play around and explore syntax and view results.
	
Once the playground is open you will see on Line 1:
	
	
	//:Playground -noun: a place where people can play	
The two forward slashes // are what is referred to as "comments".  This allow you to make comments in your code and they are not read by the IDE () as code.
	
on Line 3:
	
	import UIKit
	
The UIKit is a framework provided by Apple.  If you press the option button and hover over 'UIKit', a popover will open and give a brief description of a UIKit.  If you would like more detailed information please open the Window option in the menu bar. Select Documentation and API in the drop down window.  Then search for UIKit.
	
on Line 5 Xcode will give you your first line of code:
	
	var str ="Hello Playground"
	
The result of the code appears on the right side output window.
	
	
Have fun playing and exploring!!!!
	
	
	
	
				